src/Microsoft.CodeAnalysis.NetAnalyzers/src/RulesMissingDocumentation.md, before:

# Rules without documentation

Rule ID | Missing Help Link | Title |
--------|-------------------|-------|
CA1418 | <https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/fundamentals/code-analysis/quality-rules/ca1418> | Use valid platform string |
CA1419 | <https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/fundamentals/code-analysis/quality-rules/ca1419> | Provide a public parameterless constructor for concrete types derived from 'System.Runtime.InteropServices.SafeHandle' |
CA1727 | <https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/fundamentals/code-analysis/quality-rules/ca1727> | Use PascalCase for log message tokens |
CA1839 | <https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/fundamentals/code-analysis/quality-rules/ca1839> | Use 'Environment.ProcessPath' |
CA1840 | <https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/fundamentals/code-analysis/quality-rules/ca1840> | Use 'Environment.CurrentManagedThreadId' |
CA1842 | <https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/fundamentals/code-analysis/quality-rules/ca1842> | Do not use 'WhenAll' with a single task |
CA1843 | <https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/fundamentals/code-analysis/quality-rules/ca1843> | Do not use 'WaitAll' with a single task |
CA1848 | <https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/fundamentals/code-analysis/quality-rules/ca1848> | Use compiled log messages |
CA2017 | <https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/fundamentals/code-analysis/quality-rules/ca2017> | Logging format string parameter count mismatch |
CA2252 | <https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/fundamentals/code-analysis/quality-rules/ca2252> | This API requires opting into preview features |
CA2253 | <https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/fundamentals/code-analysis/quality-rules/ca2253> | Numerics should not be used in logging format string |
CA2254 | <https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/fundamentals/code-analysis/quality-rules/ca2254> | Logging format string should not be dynamically generated |

Commit message:

updating messages to become a bit more clear

src/Microsoft.CodeAnalysis.NetAnalyzers/src/RulesMissingDocumentation.md, after:

# Rules without documentation

Rule ID | Missing Help Link | Title |
--------|-------------------|-------|
CA1418 | <https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/fundamentals/code-analysis/quality-rules/ca1418> | Use valid platform string |
CA1419 | <https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/fundamentals/code-analysis/quality-rules/ca1419> | Provide a public parameterless constructor for concrete types derived from 'System.Runtime.InteropServices.SafeHandle' |
CA1727 | <https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/fundamentals/code-analysis/quality-rules/ca1727> | Use PascalCase for named holes |
CA1839 | <https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/fundamentals/code-analysis/quality-rules/ca1839> | Use 'Environment.ProcessPath' |
CA1840 | <https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/fundamentals/code-analysis/quality-rules/ca1840> | Use 'Environment.CurrentManagedThreadId' |
CA1842 | <https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/fundamentals/code-analysis/quality-rules/ca1842> | Do not use 'WhenAll' with a single task |
CA1843 | <https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/fundamentals/code-analysis/quality-rules/ca1843> | Do not use 'WaitAll' with a single task |
CA1848 | <https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/fundamentals/code-analysis/quality-rules/ca1848> | Use the LoggerMessage delegates |
CA2017 | <https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/fundamentals/code-analysis/quality-rules/ca2017> | Parameter count mismatch |
CA2252 | <https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/fundamentals/code-analysis/quality-rules/ca2252> | This API requires opting into preview features |
CA2253 | <https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/fundamentals/code-analysis/quality-rules/ca2253> | Named holes should not be numeric values |
CA2254 | <https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/fundamentals/code-analysis/quality-rules/ca2254> | Template should be a static expression |
